Environment variable documentation (#2417)
ROCmSoftwarePlatform/AMDMIGraphX: docs/dev/env_vars.rst

Environment Variables
=====================

For parsing
---------------

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_ONNX_PARSER**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print debugging traces for the onnx parser.
Prints: initializers (if used), ONNX node operators, added MIGraphX instructions

**MIGRAPHX_DISABLE_FP16_INSTANCENORM_CONVERT**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Disables the conversion from fp16 to fp32 for the InstanceNormalization ONNX operator that MIGX does as a workaround for accuracy issues with reduce_mean/variance.
See ``parse_instancenorm.cpp`` for more details.

Matchers
------------

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_MATCHES**

Set to "1" to print the matcher that matches an instruction and the matched instruction.
Set to "2" and use the ``MIGRAPHX_TRACE_MATHCES_FOR`` flag to filter out results.

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_MATCHES_FOR**

Set to a string of what you want to filter matched results of.

> TODO: need to figure out what this can do

Reviewer: It can be set to name of any matcher and only traces for that matcher will be printed out.

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_SCHEDULE**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print debug statements for the ``schedule`` pass.

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_PROPAGATE_CONSTANT**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Traces instructions replaced with a constant.

**MIGRAPHX_INT8_QUANTIZATION_PARAMS**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print the quantization parameters in only the main module.

**MIGRAPHX_DISABLE_DNNL_POST_OPS_WORKAROUND**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Disable the DNNL post ops workaround.

**MIGRAPHX_DISABLE_MIOPEN_FUSION**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Disable MIOpen fusions.

**MIGRAPHX_DISABLE_SCHEDULE_PASS**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Disable the ``schedule`` pass.

**MIGRAPHX_DISABLE_REDUCE_FUSION**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Disable the ``fuse_reduce`` pass.

**MIGRAPHX_ENABLE_NHWC**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Enable the ``layout_nhwc`` pass.

**MIGRAPHX_ENABLE_CK**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.

> Enable using the Composable Kernels library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable using the Composable Kernels library. Should be used in conjunction with MIGRAPHX_DISABLE_MLIR=1
```

> **MIGRAPHX_ENABLE_MLIR**

Reviewer 2: @pfultz2  Should this exist?  It is enabled by default now.  Perhaps the comments need to mention what release it was deprecated at?

Reviewer: This variable doesn't exist anymore.

Reviewer: There is one more ENV var `MIGRAPHX_ENABLE_EXTRA_MLIR`

Reviewer 2: Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Enables additional opportunities to use MLIR that may improve performance.

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Enable using the rocMLIR library.

**MIGRAPHX_COPY_LITERALS**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Use ``hip_copy_to_gpu`` with a new ``literal`` instruction rather than use ``hip_copy_literal{}``.

Compilation traces
----------------------

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_FINALIZE**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Debug print instructions during the ``module.finalize()`` step.

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_COMPILE**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print trace information for the graph compilation process.

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_PASSES**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print the compile pass and the program after the pass.

**MIGRAPHX_TIME_PASSES**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Time the compile passes.

> GPU Kernels JIT compilation debugging

Reviewer: These options are applicable for both hiprtc and hipclang.

-----------------------------------------

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_CMD_EXECUTE**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print commands executed by the MIGraphX ``process``.

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_HIPRTC**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print HIPRTC options and C++ file executed.

**MIGRAPHX_DEBUG_SAVE_TEMP_DIR**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Make it so the created temporary directories are not deleted.

**MIGRAPHX_GPU_DEBUG**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.

> Adds the option ``-DMIGRAPHX_DEBUG`` when compiling HIPRTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, this adds the option ``-DMIGRAPHX_DEBUG`` when compiling GPU kernels.
```

**MIGRAPHX_GPU_DEBUG_SYM**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Adds the option ``-g`` when compiling HIPRTC.

**MIGRAPHX_GPU_DUMP_SRC**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Dump the HIPRTC source files compiled.

**MIGRAPHX_GPU_DUMP_ASM**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.

> Dump the HIPRTC assembly.

Reviewer: It doesn't print for HIPRTC, This flag is only valid for hip-clang

Set to "2" to additionally print all MLIR operations.

**MIGRAPHX_MLIR_USE_SPECIFIC_OPS**

Set to the name of the operations you want to always use MLIR regardless of GPU architecture.
Accepts a list of operators separated by commas (ex: "fused", "convolution", "dot").

**MIGRAPHX_MLIR_TUNING_DB**

Set to the path of the MLIR tuning database to load.

**MIGRAPHX_MLIR_TUNING_CFG**

Set to the path of the tuning configuration.
Appends to tuning cfg file that could be used with rocMLIR tuning scripts.

**MIGRAPHX_MLIR_TUNE_EXHAUSTIVE**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Do exhaustive tuning for MLIR.

CK vars
-----------

**MIGRAPHX_LOG_CK_GEMM**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Print Composable Kernels GEMM traces.

**MIGRAPHX_CK_DEBUG**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Always add the ``-DMIGRAPHX_CK_CHECK=1`` for compiling Composable Kernels operators.

**MIGRAPHX_TUNE_CK**

Set to "1", "enable", "enabled", "yes", or "true" to use.
Use tuning for Composable Kernels.

Testing 
------------

**MIGRAPHX_TRACE_TEST_COMPILE**

Set to the target that you want to trace the compilation of (ex. "gpu", "cpu").

> Prints the compile trace for the given target for the verify tests.

Reviewer: This flag shouldn't be used in conjunction with `MIGRAPHX_TRACE_COMPILE`. For the verify tests only use `TRACE_TEST_COMPILE
